[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you think of the moments
in your life that are just
so off the charts,
exciting, or fulfilling,
they are the moments when
you are really connected.
I was Congressman at
29 and doing all right.
And then in 2008 after being in
Congress for about six years,
and my life getting more and
more hectic, more and more
responsibilities,
more and more burdens,
a lot of negative thoughts, a
lot of self-criticism of you
can do better, why didn't you
do this, or why did you do that,
and really beating
yourself up to where
I felt like I was
going to be burnt out.
And I was 35 years old.
And I thought, you know,
I'm going to be burnt out
by the time I'm 40.
There was always
a sense growing up
that there needed to
be a space, a time,
for contemplation, for some
silence, for some prayer.
There were rosaries everywhere
in the house, on the chairs,
on the bed posts.
I meditated on and off for
years with no real discipline.
After the 2008
election, I really
wanted to jump start a
daily meditation practice.
It really changed my life.
I really got a taste of what
it is like to have your mind
and your body synchronized.
Mindfulness is a
type of meditation
that works on awareness.
We honor and respect that
athletes and the performers
should do this all the
time, the musicians.
When we see someone pay
attention completely, wholly,
mind and body in the
same spot, we love that.
We go to concerts,
we all sing along
to the same song, all in unison,
all in the present moment,
all being moved.
And after I got a
taste of it, I really
thought we have to introduce
this into the health care
system in America.
I'm on the Armed
Services Committee,
which oversees the
entire policies that
affect the men and women
in our armed services.
Part of what we're
working on now
is trying to really get
mindfulness training
and mind fitness training into
some of the basic training
that the men and women have
to get before they even
go overseas or become
fully certified
as soldiers for our country.
The openness has
really been surprising.
Members of Congress
pull me off to the side
and say, hey, what is this
you're talking about here.
Because I'm fried,
and I need something.
The greatest waste I think
we have in the country
today is the wasting
of our human resources
that go untapped, the
inner resources that we
have at our disposal
that we never tap into.
We don't need to go
further to the left
or further to the right.
We all need to go deeper.
We need everyone committed
to growing and developing
themselves to their
full potential.
Much of our talent
in this country
goes untapped and undeveloped.
It sits on the sidelines or is
pushed there because of fear,
doubt, and suffering.
This is an excerpt from my
book, "A Mindful Nation".
Every time I fly into New
York City, I think about 9/11,
and I think about the people
calling from the airplane
to their family members.
And they were all calling
to say I love you.
You know, that
was the last thing
they were going to
say to somebody.
Because at that point,
nothing else mattered.
Everything else falls off.
I mean, all the BS is gone.
And it's just basic humanity,
a realization of the connection
that we have with each other.
We are born with
an understanding
that we need each
other to survive.
And our species has
evolved in a way
that we understand
at the deepest levels
that we are connected
to each other.
Once we see we're
connected, I think
that will change our politics.
Because it's not the 1%,
the 99%, it's the 100%.
We're all in this together.
We're all connected.
So how do we figure out how to
bring that into our daily life?
I think it begins by developing
those inner resources
and teaching Americans
how to have and cultivate
that inner life, which
is, I think, fundamental.
My hope really is that by
slowing down and practicing
mindfulness in
whatever way people
see fit gets us back in tune
with that basic connection
that we have.